Date Posted,Title,Journal,Authors,Link,Abstract,Text,Twitter
"November 14, 2013",The Origin of Human-infecting Avian Influenza A H6N1 Virus,Pre-print,"[(Zhang, Liangsheng,  Department of Bioinformatics, School of Life Sciences and Technology, Tongji University, Shanghai, C)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000398 ,"In this study, we retraced the origin of the reported avian influenza A H6N1 virus infecting a 20-year-old woman in Taiwan. As we know, this is the first reported case of human infection by the H6N1 virus, because this subtype virus usually circulates in birds and poultry. Therefore it is crucial to know how this virus attained the ability to infect humans. Using phylogenetic analysis, we found that this virus was derived from reassortments of multiple lineages of H6N1 viruses and H5N2 viruses. The results deepen our understanding of how the new human-infecting virus originated and based on these we discussed possible explanations for the H6N1 infection of humans. Our results, together with recent studies of H7N9 viruses which result in severe disorders, suggest that reassortments among avian-type viruses are quite often, which may sometimes result in fatal infections in humans. Thus a close watch on the circulation of avian influenza viruses is pretty necessary.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Pre-print/Pre-print1.pdf,"[( 15 Nov 2013 , 2)]"
"November 14, 2013",A model of flux regulation in the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway: Immune mediated graduated flux reduction versus statin-like led stepped flux reduction,Biochimie,"[(Watterson, Steven,  University of Ulster), (Guerriero, Maria-Luisa,  University College, Dublin), (Blanc, Mathieu,  Ecole Federale of Lausanne), (Mazein, Alexander,  Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology), (Loewe, Laurence,  University of Wisconsin-Madison), (Robertson, Kevin,  University of Edinburgh), (Gibbs, Holly,  Texas A&M University), (Shui, Guanghou,  National University of Singapore), (Wenk, Markus,  National University of Singapore), (Hillston, Jane,  University of Edinburgh), (Ghazal, Peter,  University of Edinburgh)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000380 ,"The cholesterol biosynthesis pathway has recently been shown to play an important role in the innate immune response to viral infection with host protection occurring through a coordinate down regulation of the enzymes catalyzing each metabolic step. In contrast, statin based drugs, which form the principle pharmaceutical agents for decreasing the activity of this pathway, target a single enzyme. Here, we build an ordinary differential equation model of the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway in order to investigate how the two regulatory strategies impact upon the behaviour of the pathway. We employ a modest set of assumptions: that the pathway operates away from saturation, that each metabolite is involved in multiple cellular interactions and that mRNA levels reflect enzyme concentrations. Using data taken from primary bone marrow derived macrophage cells infected with murine cytomegalovirus infection or treated with IFNγ, we show that, under these assumptions, coordinate down regulation of enzyme activity imparts a graduated reduction in flux along the pathway. In contrast, modelling a statin-like treatment that achieves the same degree of down-regulation in cholesterol production, we show that this delivers a step change in flux along the pathway. The graduated reduction mediated by physiological coordinate regulation of multiple enzymes supports a mechanism that allows a greater level of specificity, altering cholesterol levels with less impact upon interactions branching from the pathway, than pharmacological step reductions. We argue that coordinate regulation is likely to show a long-term evolutionary advantage over single enzyme regulation. Finally, the results from our models have implications for future pharmaceutical therapies intended to target cholesterol production with greater specificity and fewer off target effects, suggesting that this can be achieved by mimicking the coordinated down-regulation observed in immunological responses.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Biochimie/Biochimie1.pdf,[]
"November 14, 2013",The evolution of sex differences in disease genetics,Trends in Genetics,"[(Gilks, William P,  University of Sussex), (Abbott, Jessica K,  Lund University), (Morrow, Edward H,  University of Sussex)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000414 ,"There are significant differences in the biology of males and females, ranging from biochemical pathways to behavioural responses, which are relevant to modern medicine. Broad-sense heritability estimates differ between the sexes for many common medical disorders, indicating that genetic architecture can be sex-dependent. Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have successfully identified sex-specific and sex-biased effects, where in addition to sex-specific effects on gene expression, twenty-two medical traits have sex-specific or sex-biased loci. Sex-specific genetic architecture of complex traits is also extensively documented in model organisms using genome-wide linkage or association mapping, and in gene disruption studies. The evolutionary origins of sex-specific genetic architecture and sexual dimorphism lie in the fact that males and females share most of their genetic variation yet experience different selection pressures. At the extreme is sexual antagonism, where selection on an allele acts in opposite directions between the sexes. Sexual antagonism has been repeatedly identified via a number of experimental methods in a range of different taxa. Although the molecular basis remains to be identified, mathematical models predict the maintenance of deleterious variants that experience selection in a sex-dependent manner. There are multiple mechanisms by which sexual antagonism and alleles under sex-differential selection could contribute toward the genetics of common, complex disorders. The evidence we review clearly indicates that further research into sex-dependent selection and the sex-specific genetic architecture of diseases would be rewarding. This would be aided by studies of laboratory and wild animal populations, and by modelling sex-specific effects in genome-wide association data with joint, gene-by-sex interaction tests. We predict that even sexually monomorphic diseases may harbour cryptic sex-specific genetic architecture. Furthermore, empirical evidence suggests that investigating sex-dependent epistasis may be especially rewarding. Finally, the prevalent nature of sex-specific genetic architecture in disease offers scope for the development of more effective, sex-specific therapies.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Trends in Genetics/Trends in Genetics1.pdf,"[( 15 Nov 2013 , 2)]"
"November 14, 2013",Sampling principles for biodiversity study,Pre-print,"[(Pan, Xubin,  Chinese Academy of Inspection and Quarantine)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000364 ,"Sampling is a fundamental tool in ecology and critical for biodiversity measurement. However, basic principles of biodiversity sampling have been overlooked for many years. In this paper, I proposed and explored five principles of sampling for a specific area and biodiversity study. The first principle of sampling, species increasing with area, is that the number of species increases with the area. The second principle of sampling, individuals increasing with area, is that the number of individuals increases with the area. The third principle of sampling, sum of species number, is that the sum of species number in one area and species number in another area is no less than the total species number in the two areas. The fourth principle of sampling, individual complement, is that the sum of the mathematical expectation of individual number of one or several species in the area a and that of the same one or several species in the area A-a is the total individual number N of the same one or several species in the total area A. The fifth principle of sampling, species-area theory, is that the sum of the mathematical expectation of number of species in the area a and that of number of species lost if area A-a is cleared is the total species number M in the total area A.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Pre-print/Pre-print2.pdf,"[( 15 Nov 2013 , 3)]"
"November 13, 2013",On the Reproducibility of TCGA Ovarian Cancer MicroRNA Profiles,PLOS ONE,"[(Wan, Ying-Wooi,  Baylor College of Medicine), (Mach, Claire,  University of Houston), (Allen, Genevera I.,  Rice University), (Anderson, Matthew,  Baylor College of Medicine), (Liu, Zhandong,  Baylor College of Medicine)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000315 ,"Dysregulated microRNA (miRNA) expression is a well-established feature of human cancer. However, the role of specific miRNAs in determining cancer outcomes remains unclear. Using Level 3 expression data from the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we identified 61 miRNAs that are associated with overall survival in 469 ovarian cancers profiled by microarray (p<0.01). We also identified 12 miRNAs that are associated with survival when miRNAs were profiled in the same specimens using Next Generation Sequencing (miRNA-Seq) (p<0.01). Surprisingly, only 1 miRNA transcript is associated with ovarian cancer survival in both datasets. Our analyses indicate that this discrepancy is due to the fact that miRNA levels reported by the two platforms correlate poorly, even after correcting for potential issues inherent to signal detection algorithms. Further investigation is warranted.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/PLOS ONE/PLOS ONE1.pdf,"[( 11 Dec 2013 , 1), ( 13 Nov 2013 , 2), ( 18 Dec 2013 , 2)]"
"November 12, 2013","Population genomics of parallel hybrid zones in the mimetic butterflies, H. melpomene and H. erato",Genome Research,"[(Nadeau, Nicola,  University of Cambridge), (Ruiz, Mayte,  University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras), (Salazar, Patricio,  Universidad Tecnológica Indoamérica), (Counterman, Brian,  Mississippi State  University), (Medina, Jose Alejandro,  University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras), (Ortiz-Zuazaga, Humberto,  University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras), (Morrison, Anna,  University of Cambridge), (McMillan, W. Owen,  Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute), (Jiggins, Chri,  Cambridge), (Papa, Riccardo,  University of Puerto Rico Rio Piedras)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000208 ,"Hybrid zones can be valuable tools for studying evolution and identifying genomic regions responsible for adaptive divergence and underlying phenotypic variation. Hybrid zones between subspecies of Heliconius butterflies can be very narrow and are maintained by strong selection acting on colour pattern. The co-mimetic species H. erato and H. melpomene have parallel hybrid zones where both species undergo a change from one colour pattern form to another. We use restriction associated DNA sequencing to obtain several thousand genome wide sequence markers and use these to analyse patterns of population divergence across two pairs of parallel hybrid zones in Peru and Ecuador. We compare two approaches for analysis of this type of data; alignment to a reference genome and de novo assembly, and find that alignment gives the best results for species both closely (H. melpomene) and distantly (H. erato, ~15% divergent) related to the reference sequence. Our results confirm that the colour pattern controlling loci account for the majority of divergent regions across the genome, but we also detect other divergent regions apparently unlinked to colour pattern differences. We also use association mapping to identify previously unmapped colour pattern loci, in particular the Ro locus. Finally, we identify within our sample a new cryptic population of H. timareta in Ecuador, which occurs at relatively low altitude and is mimetic with H. melpomene malleti.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Genome Research/Genome Research1.pdf,"[( 06 Dec 2016 , 1), ( 17 Nov 2013 , 2), ( 28 Dec 2013 , 1), ( 29 Jan 2014 , 1), ( 14 Nov 2013 , 1)]"
"November 12, 2013",A Complete Public Domain Family Genomics Dataset,Pre-print,"[(Corpas, Manuel,  Independent), (Cariaso, Mike,  SNPedia), (Coletta, Alain,  InSilicoDB), (Weiss, David,  InSilicoDB), (Harrison, Andrew P,  University of Essex), (Moran, Federico,  Universidad Complutense de Madrid), (Yang, Huanming,  BGI)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000216 ,"BACKGROUND: The availability of open access genomic data is essential for the personal genomics field. Public genomic data allow comparative analyses, testing of new tools and genotype-phenotype association studies. Personal genomics data of unrelated individuals are available in the public domain, notably the Personal Genome Project; however, to date genomics family data and metadata are severely lacking, mainly due to cost, privacy concerns or restricted access to Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) technology. Family data have a lot to offer as they allow the study of heritability, something which is impossible to do just by using unrelated individuals. 
FINDINGS: A whole family from Southern Spain decided to genotype, sequence and analyse their personal genomes making them publicly available under a Creative Commons 0 license (CC0; commonly denominated as public domain). These data include a) five 23andMe SNP chip genotype bed files, b) four raw exomes with their assorted bam files and VCF files, c) a metagenomic raw sequencing data file and d) derived data of likely phenotypes using SNPedia-derived tools. 
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge this is the first CC0 released set of genomic, phenotypic and metagenomic data for a whole family. This dataset is also unique in that it was obtained through direct-to-consumer genetic tests. Hence any ordinary citizen with enough budget and samples should be able to reproduce this experiment. We envisage this dataset to be a useful resource for a variety of applications in the personal genomics field as a) negative control data for trait association discovery, b) testing data for development of new software and c) sample data for heritability studies. We encourage prospective users to share with us derived results so that they can be added to our existing collection.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Pre-print/Pre-print3.pdf,"[( 29 Jun 2014 , 1), ( 15 Nov 2013 , 6), ( 04 May 2015 , 3), ( 16 Sep 2017 , 1), ( 06 Mar 2017 , 1), ( 26 Nov 2016 , 2), ( 15 Dec 2016 , 3), ( 14 Dec 2016 , 4), ( 14 Nov 2013 , 10)]"
"November 12, 2013",Water and the biology of *prions* and plaques,Pre-print,"[(Steel, Graham K,  n/a), (Wiggins, Phillippa M,  University of Auckland), (n/a, n/a,  n/a)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000224 ,"This is an attempt to account for the insolubility and/or aggregation of prions and plaques in terms of a model of water consisting of an equilibrium between high
density and low density microdomains. Hydrophobic molecules, including proteins,
accumulate selectively into stable populations, enriched in high density water, at
charged sites on biopolymers. In enriched high density water, proteins are probably
partially unfolded and may precipitate out when released. All extracellular matrices
contain such charged polymers. Prions, which have been shown to accumulate in soils
and clays containing silicates and aluminates also probably accumulate in extracellular matrices.

Release of proteins follows hydrolysis of the charged groups by highly reactive high
density water. This is normally a slow process but is greatly accelerated by urea.
Plaques may form with age and disease because of accumulation of urea and, perhaps,
glucose in the blood. This favours precipitation of proteins emerging from matrices,rather than refolding and solution. Dialysis should, therefore, interfere with plaqueformation and impede the development of some age-related diseases.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Pre-print/Pre-print4.pdf,"[( 20 Apr 2015 , 1), ( 06 May 2014 , 1), ( 25 Oct 2016 , 4), ( 22 Aug 2016 , 1), ( 04 Sep 2014 , 1), ( 14 Nov 2013 , 1), ( 23 Nov 2013 , 2)]"
"November 12, 2013",Genome-wide targets of selection: female response to experimental removal of sexual selection in Drosophila melanogaster,Pre-print,"[(Innocenti, Paolo,  Uppsala University), (Flis, Ilona,  University of Sussex), (Morrow, Edward H,  University of Sussex)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000240 ,"Despite the common assumption that promiscuity should in general be favored in males, but not in females, to date there is no consensus on the general impact of multiple mating on female fitness. Notably, very little is known about the genetic and physiological features underlying the female response to sexual selection pressures. By combining an experimental evolution approach with genomic techniques, we investigated the effects of single and multiple matings on female fecundity and gene expression. We experimentally manipulated the mating system in replicate populations of Drosophila melanogaster by removing sexual selection, with the aim of testing differences in short term post-mating effects of females evolved under different mating strategies. We show that monogamous females suffer decreased fecundity, a decrease that was partially recovered by experimentally reversing the selection pressure back to the ancestral promiscuous state. The post-mating gene expression profiles of monogamous females differ significantly from promiscuous females, involving 9% of the genes tested. These transcripts are active in several tissues, mainly ovaries, neural tissues and midgut, and are involved in metabolic processes, reproduction and signaling pathways. Our results demonstrate how the female post-mating response can evolve under different mating systems, and provide novel insights into the genes targeted by sexual selection in females, by identifying a list of candidate genes responsible for the decrease in female fecundity in the absence of promiscuity.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Pre-print/Pre-print5.pdf,"[( 15 Nov 2013 , 2), ( 14 Nov 2013 , 1)]"
"November 12, 2013",A genome wide dosage suppressor network reveals genetic robustness and a novel mechanism for Huntington’s disease,Nucleic Acids Research,"[(Patra, Biranchi,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Kon, Yoshiko,  University of Rochester School of Medicine), (Yadav, Gitanjali,  3National Institute of Plant Genome Research (NIPGR), India), (Sevold, Anthony,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Frumkin, Jesse P,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Vallabhajosyula, Ravishankar R,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Hintze, Arend,  Keck Graduate Institute & Michigan State University), (Østman, Bjørn,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Schossau, Jory,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Bhan, Ashish,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Marzolf, Bruz,  Institute for Systems Biology), (Tamashiro, Jenna K,  Keck Graduate Institute), (Kaur, Amardeep,  Institute for Systems Biology), (Baliga, Nitin S,  Institute for Systems Biology), (Grayhack, Elizabeth J,  University of Rochester School of Medicine), (Adami, Christoph,  Keck Graduate Institute & Michigan State University), (Galas, David J,  Institute for Systems Biology & Pacific Northwest Diabetes Research Institute), (Raval, Alpan,  Keck Graduate Institute & School of Mathematical Sciences at Claremont Graduate University), (Phizicky, Eric M,  University of Rochester School of Medicine), (Ray, Animesh,  Keck Graduate Institute)]",https://doi.org/10.1101/000265 ,"Mutational robustness is the extent to which an organism has evolved to withstand the effects of deleterious mutations.  We explored the extent of mutational robustness in the budding yeast by genome wide dosage suppressor analysis of 53 conditional lethal mutations in cell division cycle and RNA synthesis related genes, revealing 660 suppressor interactions of which 642 are novel.  This collection has several distinctive features, including high co-occurrence of mutant-suppressor pairs within protein modules, highly correlated functions between the pairs, and higher diversity of functions among the co-suppressors than previously observed.  Dosage suppression of essential genes encoding RNA polymerase subunits and chromosome cohesion complex suggest a surprising degree of functional plasticity of macromolecular complexes and the existence of degenerate pathways for circumventing potentially lethal mutations.  The utility of dosage-suppressor networks is illustrated by the discovery of a novel connection between chromosome cohesion-condensation pathways involving homologous recombination, and Huntingtons disease.",/Users/sinabooeshaghi/Documents/Projects/Code/biorxiv/downloads/Nucleic Acids Research/Nucleic Acids Research1.pdf,"[( 15 Nov 2013 , 1), ( 14 Nov 2013 , 10)]"
